# US_Supermarket_Sales_PowerBI
Interactive dashboard using Power BI to provide insights on US Supermarket Sales.

## Overview
A dataset of US Supermarket Sales has been used which is taken from Kaggle. The data are cleaned first, then different insights are created in Power BI. Below are the column names that the dataset has:
- Row ID	
- Order ID	
- Order Date	
- Ship Date	
- Ship Mode	
- Customer ID	
- Customer Name	
- Segment	
- Country	
- City	
- State	
- Postal Code	
- Region	
- Product ID	
- Category	
- Sub-Category	
- Product Name	
- Sales	
- Quantity	
- Discount	
- Profit

There are a total of 21 columns with an index named Row ID. Based on the column names provided, six key performance indicators (KPIs) are created that includes:
1. Monthly Profit Margin - Calculated the profit margin by dividing the sum of "Profit" by the sum of "Sales" and multiplying by 100. This KPI will help you monitor the profitability of the supermarket's operations.
2. Top 5 Product Sales - Calculated the sum of the "Sales" column with respect to products and filter to get the Top 5 results to get the five best product sales. This KPI will provide an overview of the most demanding product. 
3. Top 5 Customer Sales - Calculated the sum of the "Sales" column with respect to customers and filtered to get the Top 5 results to get the five best customer sales. This KPI will provide an overview of the most valuable customers.
4. Monthly Sales - Calculated the sum of the "Sales" column to get the overall sales revenue generated by the supermarket. This KPI will provide an overview of the business's performance in terms of sales.
5. Order By Region - Analyzed the sales performance in different regions. Sum the "Sales" column by region (e.g., West, East, South, Midwest) to identify which regions are generating the highest sales and identify any regional disparities.
6. Monthly Orders - Calculated the count of the "Order ID" column to get the number of sales made with respect to the month. This KPI will provide an overview of which is the peak month and which one is lean.

All six KPIs will be filtered based on the three columns mentioned below. This filtration will enable user interaction with the dashboard whose insight's results will get change based on the criteria the user provides.
1. Category
2. Ship Mode
3. Segment
